BUILD.md, before:

# Buiding TAD

There are several ways to build and run TAD.

1. Poetry
2. Container

## Building TAD with Poetry

Poetry is a Python package and dependency manager. Before you can install Poetry you first need to install Python. Please follow [these](https://github.com/pyenv/pyenv?tab=readme-ov-file#installation) instructions.

Once you have Python available you can install Poetry. See [here](https://python-poetry.org/docs/#installation).

Once you have Poetry and Python installed you can start installing the dependencies with the following shell command.

```shell
poetry install
```

When poetry is done installing all dependencies you can start using the tool.

```shell
poetry run python -m uvicorn tad.main:app --log-level warning
```

## Database

We support most SQL database types. You can use the variable `APP_DATABASE_SCHEME` to change the database. The default scheme is sqlite.

If you change the `models` at tad/models of the application you can generate a new migration file

```shell
alembic revision --autogenerate -m "a message"
```

Please make sure you check the auto generated file in tad/migrations/

to upgrade to the latest version of the database schema use

```shell
alembic upgrade head
```

## Building TAD with Containers

Containers allows to package software, make it portable, and isolated. Before you can run a container you first need a container runtime. There are several available, but al lot of users use [docker desktop](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop/).

After installing a Docker runtime like Docker Desktop you can start building the applications with this command:

```shell
docker compose build
```

To run the application you use this command:

```shell
docker compose up
```

## Language support

We use babel for translations and a custom yaml for dynamic translations. Babel does not support Frysian, so we added a custom piece of code to support this. To generate, update or compile the language files, use the script in ./script/translate.

## Testing, Linting etc

For testing, linting and other feature we use several tools. You can look up the documentation on how to use these:

* [pytest](https://docs.pytest.org/en/)  `poetry run pytest`
* [ruff](https://docs.astral.sh/ruff/) `poetry run ruff format` or `poetry run ruff check --fix`
* [coverage](https://coverage.readthedocs.io/en/) `poetry run coverage report`
* [pyright](https://microsoft.github.io/pyright/#/) `poetry run pyright`

## Devcontainers

[VSCode](https://code.visualstudio.com/) has great support for devcontainers. If your editor has support for devcontainers you can also use them to start the devcontainer. Devcontaines offer great standardized environments for development.

## Updating dependencies

Use poetry to update all python project dependencies

```shell
poetry update
```

Use pre-commit to update all hooks

```shell
pre-commit autoupdate
```

Commit message:

Add more demo objects to the demo suite

BUILD.md, after:

# Buiding TAD

There are several ways to build and run TAD.

1. Poetry
2. Container

## Building TAD with Poetry

Poetry is a Python package and dependency manager. Before you can install Poetry you first need to install Python. Please follow [these](https://github.com/pyenv/pyenv?tab=readme-ov-file#installation) instructions.

Once you have Python available you can install Poetry. See [here](https://python-poetry.org/docs/#installation).

Once you have Poetry and Python installed you can start installing the dependencies with the following shell command.

```shell
poetry install
```

When poetry is done installing all dependencies you can start using the tool.

```shell
poetry run python -m uvicorn tad.main:app --log-level warning
```

### Suggested development ENVIRONMENT settings
To use a demo environment during local development, you can use the following environment options.
```shell
export ENVIRONMENT=demo AUTO_CREATE_SCHEMA=true
```


## Database

We support most SQL database types. You can use the variable `APP_DATABASE_SCHEME` to change the database. The default scheme is sqlite.

If you change the `models` at tad/models of the application you can generate a new migration file

```shell
alembic revision --autogenerate -m "a message"
```

Please make sure you check the auto generated file in tad/migrations/

to upgrade to the latest version of the database schema use

```shell
alembic upgrade head
```

## Building TAD with Containers

Containers allows to package software, make it portable, and isolated. Before you can run a container you first need a container runtime. There are several available, but al lot of users use [docker desktop](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop/).

After installing a Docker runtime like Docker Desktop you can start building the applications with this command:

```shell
docker compose build
```

To run the application you use this command:

```shell
docker compose up
```

## Language support

We use babel for translations and a custom yaml for dynamic translations. Babel does not support Frysian, so we added a custom piece of code to support this. To generate, update or compile the language files, use the script in ./script/translate.

## Testing, Linting etc

For testing, linting and other feature we use several tools. You can look up the documentation on how to use these:

* [pytest](https://docs.pytest.org/en/)  `poetry run pytest`
* [ruff](https://docs.astral.sh/ruff/) `poetry run ruff format` or `poetry run ruff check --fix`
* [coverage](https://coverage.readthedocs.io/en/) `poetry run coverage report`
* [pyright](https://microsoft.github.io/pyright/#/) `poetry run pyright`

## Devcontainers

[VSCode](https://code.visualstudio.com/) has great support for devcontainers. If your editor has support for devcontainers you can also use them to start the devcontainer. Devcontaines offer great standardized environments for development.

## Updating dependencies

Use poetry to update all python project dependencies

```shell
poetry update
```

Use pre-commit to update all hooks

```shell
pre-commit autoupdate
```
